Updated Interactions to be v5 compliant (#10)
DV8FromTheWorld/JDA-Website: docs/using-jda/interactions.md

# Interactions

> !!! note ""

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! note
```
I personally wouldn't remove titles in admonitions, instead just letting it take the default title for that admonition style like we have everywhere else on the wiki. This is just a minor nitpick for the sake of consistency. If you want to keep it like this I'm totally fine with that!

Author: I'd rather keep it as-is, it's just a little notice at the top and I was debating if it should even be in an admonition at all

# Interactions

!!! note ""

    Interactions differ between JDA v4 and JDA v5.  This page covers JDA v5.

This guide will give you a brief introduction to an API for adding and handling interactions in Discord. Interactions are a way to integrate your bot features directly into the Discord User Interface. These things include features such as:

- [Slash Commands](#slash-commands)
- [Slash Command Auto-Complete](#slash-command-auto-complete)
- [Context Menus](#context-menus)
- [Buttons](#buttons)

> - [Selection Menus (Dropdowns)](#selection-menus-dropdowns)

Reviewer 2: Lets change these to `Select Menus` everywhere to be consistent

- Modals*

*Modals are currently in-development and will be available soon in v5-alpha.

### Ephemeral Messages

Ephemeral messages are only visible to the user who used your Interaction. They are similar to the messages Discord sends you when you update your nickname with `/nick`.

There are many limitations to ephemeral messages, a few of which are listed below:

- Cannot be deleted by the bot

> - Cannot contain any files/attachments

Reviewer 2: You actually can add attachments now

                             .addChoice("Big Cat", "bigcat")
                             .addChoice("Canine", "canine")
                             .addChoice("Fish", "fish")
                     )
        ).queue();
        ```
    === "Kotlin"
        ```kotlin
        guild.updateCommands().addCommands(
                Commands.slash("echo", "Repeats messages back to you.")
                    .addOption(OptionType.STRING, "message", "The message to repeat.")
                    .addOption(OptionType.INTEGER, "times", "The number of times to repeat the message.")
                    .addOption(OptionType.BOOLEAN, "ephemeral", "Whether or not the message should be sent as an ephemeral message."),
                Commands.slash("animal", "Finds a random animal")
                     .addOptions(
                         OptionData(OptionType.STRING, "type", "The type of animal to find")
                             .addChoice("Bird", "bird")
                             .addChoice("Big Cat", "bigcat")
                             .addChoice("Canine", "canine")
                             .addChoice("Fish", "fish")
                     )
        ).queue()
        ```

> To create global commands you need to call these on a `JDA` instance and for guild commands on a `Guild` instance. Your bot needs the `applications.commands` scope in addition to the `bot` scope for your bot invite link. Example: <https://discord.com/oauth2/authorize?client_id=123456789&scope=bot+applications.commands>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to call these on a `JDA` instance to create global commands, and on a `Guild` instance to create guild commands . Your bot needs the `applications.commands` scope in addition to the `bot` scope for your bot invite link. Example: <https://discord.com/oauth2/authorize?client_id=123456789&scope=bot+applications.commands>
```

- **Global**: These commands are available in every server your bot is in (regardless of sharding!) and direct message (Private Channels). These commands can take up to 1 hour to show up. _It is recommended to use guild commands for testing purposes._
- **Guild**: These commands are only in the specific guild that you created them in and cannot be used in direct messages. These commands show up immediately after creation.

### Creating Slash Commands

You can create commands through these methods in JDA:

- `updateCommands()`
- `upsertCommand(name, description)`

!!! example
    ```java
    guild.updateCommands().addCommands(
            Commands.slash("echo", "Repeats messages back to you.")
                .addOption(OptionType.STRING, "message", "The message to repeat.")
                .addOption(OptionType.INTEGER, "times", "The number of times to repeat the message.")
                .addOption(OptionType.BOOLEAN, "ephemeral", "Whether or not the message should be sent as an ephemeral message.")

>     ).queue();

Reviewer 2: This example should include another command which makes use of choices, since that isn't super intuitive by itself.

    === "Kotlin"
        ```kotlin
        object TagCommand : ListenerAdapter() {
            override fun onSlashCommandInteraction(event: SlashCommandInteractionEvent) {
                if (event.name == "tag") {
                    event.deferReply().queue() // Tell discord we received the command, send a thinking... message to the user
                    val tagName = event.getOption("name")!!.asString
                    TagDatabase.fingTag(tagName) { tag ->
                        event.hook.sendMessage(tag).queue() // delayed response updates our inital "thinking..." message with the tag value
                    }
                }
            }
        }
        ```

### Slash Command Auto-Complete

Slash command auto-completion is a feature that allows users to begin typing arguments to a command, and suggestions from the bot will be displayed to the user, in-client.

Any slash command arguments using the `String`, `Integer` or `Number` types can be auto-completed.  By default, options are not auto-completed.  In order to make an option auto-completed, `OptionData#setAutoComplete(true)` may be used.

![Example Auto-Complete](https://i.imgur.com/IUTRfwo.png)

> ### Handling Auto-Complete

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Handling Auto-Complete
```
Just to make it a sub item under **Slash Command Auto-Complete**

            if (event.getName().equals("fruit") && event.getFocusedOption().getName().equals("name")) {
                List<Command.Choice> options = Stream.of(words)
                        .filter(word -> word.startsWith(event.getFocusedOption().getValue())) // only display words that start with the user's current input
                        .map(word -> new Command.Choice(word, word)) // map the words to choices
                        .collect(Collectors.toList());
                event.replyChoices(options).queue();
            }
        }
    }
    ```

### Context Menus

Context Menu commands are a special type of command that can be invoked on a user or message by right-clicking on them.
These commands take no arguments, and are useful for providing a quick way to perform actions on a user or message.

![Example User Context Menu](https://i.imgur.com/hK2dU8K.png)

![Example Message Context Menu](https://i.imgur.com/gOEHGCh.png)

!!! example

    Creating the commands:
    ```java
    guild.updateCommands().addCommands(
            Commands.context(Command.Type.USER, "Get user avatar"),

>             Commands.context(Command.Type.MESSAGE, "Count words")

Reviewer 2: Use `Commands.message` instead

    ```

### Slash Command Auto-Complete

Slash command auto-completion is a feature that allows users to begin typing arguments to a command, and suggestions from the bot will be displayed to the user, in-client.

Any slash command arguments using the `String`, `Integer` or `Number` types can be auto-completed.  By default, options are not auto-completed.  In order to make an option auto-completed, `OptionData#setAutoComplete(true)` may be used.

![Example Auto-Complete](https://i.imgur.com/IUTRfwo.png)

### Handling Auto-Complete

As the user is typing an argument that has autocomplete enabled for it, the bot will receive an `CommandAutoCompleteInteractionEvent`.
This event isn't fired for each keystroke, but is sent when Discord determines the user has paused typing for a bit.

Auto-completions can suggest up to 25 options, and users do not have to send a command with one of the options.

!!! example
    Creating the command:
    ```java
    guild.updateCommands().addCommands(
            Commands.slash("fruit", "find a given fruit")
                .addOption(OptionType.STRING, "name", "fruit to find", true, true)

>     ).queue();

Reviewer 2: Kotlin version:

```kt
    guild.updateCommands().addCommands(
            Commands.slash("fruit", "find a given fruit")
                .addOption(OptionType.STRING, "name", "fruit to find", required=true, autocomplete=true)
    ).queue()
```

    ```

    Handling the event:
    ```java title="AutoCompleteBot.java"
    public class AutoCompleteBot extends ListenerAdapter {
        private String[] words = new String[]{"apple", "apricot", "banana", "cherry", "coconut", "cranberry"};

        @Override
        public void onCommandAutoCompleteInteraction(CommandAutoCompleteInteractionEvent event) {
            if (event.getName().equals("fruit") && event.getFocusedOption().getName().equals("name")) {
                List<Command.Choice> options = Stream.of(words)
                        .filter(word -> word.startsWith(event.getFocusedOption().getValue())) // only display words that start with the user's current input
                        .map(word -> new Command.Choice(word, word)) // map the words to choices
                        .collect(Collectors.toList());
                event.replyChoices(options).queue();
            }
        }

>     }

Reviewer 2: Kotlin version:

```kt
object AutoCompleteBot : ListenerAdapter() {
    private val words = arrayOf("apple", "apricot", "banana", "cherry", "coconut", "cranberry")

    override fun onCommandAutoCompleteInteraction(event: CommandAutoCompleteInteractionEvent) {
        if (event.name == "fruit" && event.focusedOption.name == "name") {
            event.replyChoiceStrings(words.filter {
                it.startsWith(event.focusedOption.value)
            }).queue()
        }
    }
}
```

These commands take no arguments, and are useful for providing a quick way to perform actions on a user or message.

![Example User Context Menu](https://i.imgur.com/hK2dU8K.png)

![Example Message Context Menu](https://i.imgur.com/gOEHGCh.png)

!!! example

    Creating the commands:
    ```java
    guild.updateCommands().addCommands(
            Commands.context(Command.Type.USER, "Get user avatar"),
            Commands.message("Count words")
    ).queue()
    ```
    
    Handling the events:
    ```java title="ContextMenuBot.java"
    public class ContextMenuBot extends ListenerAdapter {
        @Override
        public void onUserContextInteraction(UserContextInteractionEvent event) {
            if (event.getName().equals("Get user avatar")) {
                event.reply("Avatar: " + event.getTarget().getEffectiveAvatarUrl()).queue();
            }
        }
    
        @Override
        public void onMessageContextInteraction(MessageContextInteractionEvent event) {
            if (event.getName().equals("Count words")) {
                event.reply("Words: " + event.getTarget().getContentRaw().split("\\s+").length).queue();
            }
        }

>     }

Reviewer 2: Kotlin version:

```kt
    object ContextMenuBot : ListenerAdapter() {
        override fun onUserContextInteraction(event: UserContextInteractionEvent) {
            if (event.name == "Get user avatar") {
                event.reply("Avatar: " + event.target.effectiveAvatarUrl).queue()
            }
        }
    
        override fun onMessageContextInteraction(event: MessageContextInteractionEvent) {
            if (event.name == "Count words") {
                event.reply("Words: " + event.target.contentRaw.split(Regex("\\s+")).size).queue()
            }
        }
    }
```

### Selection Menus (Dropdowns)

> Selection Menus can be disabled and have up to 25 options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Select Menus can be disabled and have up to 25 options.
```

                if (event.name == "hello") {
                    event.reply("Click the button to say hello")
                        .addActionRow(
                            Button.primary("hello", "Click Me"),  // Button with only a label
                            Button.success("emoji", Emoji.fromMarkdown(":minn:"))) // Button with only an emoji
                        .queue()
                } else if (event.name == "info") {
                    event.reply("Click the buttons for more info")
                        .addActionRow( // link buttons don't send events, they just open a link in the browser when clicked
                            Button.link("https://github.com/DV8FromTheWorld/JDA", "GitHub")
                                .withEmoji(Emoji.fromMarkdown(":github:")),  // Link Button with label and emoji
                            Button.link("https://ci.dv8tion.net/job/JDA/javadoc/", "Javadocs")) // Link Button with only a label
                        .queue()
                }
            }
        
            override fun onButtonInteraction(event: ButtonInteractionEvent) {

>                 if (event.componentId == "hello") {
>                     event.reply("Hello :)").queue() // send a message in the channel
>                 } else if (event.componentId == "emoji") {
>                     event.editMessage("That button didn't say click me").queue() // update the message
>                 }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                when (event.componentId) {
                    "hello" -> event.reply("Hello :)").queue() // send a message in the channel
                    "emoji" -> event.editMessage("That button didn't say click me").queue() // update the message
                }
```

### Select Menus (Dropdowns)

Select Menus can be disabled and have up to 25 options.

It's possible to set the minimum and maximum number of options to be selected.

Each option can have its own label, description, and emoji.
There can be multiple options selected and set as default.

![Example Select Menu With A Default Value](https://i.imgur.com/44q006n.png)

#### Handling SelectMenuEvent

When a user selects their options from a dropdown and submits their choices, you will receive a `SelectMenuEvent` for the respective interaction with the selected values.

!!! example

    ```java
    public class DropdownBot extends ListenerAdapter {
        @Override
        public void onSlashCommandInteraction(SlashCommandInteractionEvent event) {
            if (event.getName().equals("food")) {
                event.reply("Choose your favorite food")
                    .addActionRow(
                        SelectMenu.create("choose-food")
                          .addOption("Pizza", "pizza", "Classic") // SelectOption with only the label, value, and description
                          .addOptions(SelectOption.of("Hamburger", "hamburger") // another way to create a SelectOption

>                                 .withDescription("Tasty") // this time with a description

Reviewer 3: Kotlin version
```kotlin
object DropdownBot : ListenerAdapter() {
    override fun onSlashCommandInteraction(event: SlashCommandInteractionEvent) {
        if (event.name == "food") {
            event.reply("Choose your favorite food")
                .addActionRow(
                    SelectMenu.create("choose-food")
                        .addOption("Pizza", "pizza", "Classic") // SelectOption with only the label, value, and description
                        .addOptions(SelectOption.of("Hamburger", "hamburger") // another way to create a SelectOption
                                .withDescription("Tasty") // this time with a description
                                .withEmoji(Emoji.fromUnicode("\uD83C\uDF54")) // and an emoji
                                .withDefault(true)) // while also being the default option
                        .build())
                .queue()
        }
    }

    override fun onSelectMenuInteraction(event: SelectMenuInteractionEvent) {
        if (event.componentId == "choose-food") {
            event.reply("You chose " + event.values[0]).queue()
        }
    }
}
```
